Points : Reconciliation, "diffing" algorithm,


1) What is feature of react?
    The main features of React are:

        JSX :                   JSX is a javascript XMl which allows us to write html inside the js.
                                react does not allow to write html it allows only jsx.

        Components :            React uses component-based architecture for developing applications.
                                Components are independent and reusable bits of code.
                                These components can be shared across various applications having similar functionality.
                                The re-use of components increases the pace of development.
                                
        One-way Data Binding
        Virtual DOM
        Simplicity
        Performance

What are pros and cons of React JS?
    -pros
        -React JS improves application performance due to virtual dom.
            (when we write a React component, we did not write directly to the DOM. Instead, 
            we are writing virtual components that react will turn into the DOM, leading to smoother
             and faster performance.)

        -In React improves code readibility with the help of JSX.
            (In JSX, we can write html and javascript together.)

        -React can be conveniently used on clint side as well as server side.

        -React is easy to integrate with other framework like Angular etc.

        -React has a power to reuse component.

        -React builds single page application.
        -React JS follows uni-directional data flow or data binding.(uni-directional means data flow parent to child)

    -Cons
        -React is a library not a full-blown framework.
            (React focused only on UI not on development so we need to choose other technology to developed a project)
        
        -React has poor documentation due to constantly updating technology.
            (React technologies updating and accelerating so fast that there is no time to make proper documentation.)

2) Advantages of React?
        React is easy to learn and use
        React follows the MVC architecture.
        React uses Virtual DOM to improve efficiency.
        Creating dynamic web applications is easy.
        React is SEO-friendly.
        React allows reusable components.
        Support of handy tools
        React has a rich set of libraries.
        Scope for testing the codes.

3) Limitation of ReactJs ?

        React is just a library. It is not a complete framework.
        It has a huge library which takes time to understand.
        It may be difficult for the new programmers to understand and code.
        React uses inline Templating and JSX, which may be difficult and act as a barrier.
        It also makes the coding complex.

4) What is JSX?
        

5) What is Reconciliation?
    It is the process through which react updates the dom.

6) What is React js?
        React is a library of javascript.

7) Differences between library and framework.
        In library function or code is invoked by programmers but in
        framework function or code is invoked by itself.
        Library is not a software but framework is a software.

8) Why learn react?
         React builds UI(user interface) as fast as possible because it uses
         virtual dom at place of real dom each time.
         React is used to single page application.
         React is a long term product because it is maintained by facebook.
         ReactJS allows us to create reusable UI components.
         Large community for your support.
         Mobile app devlopment with react-native.
        
What is class and function component?
         Class Component        
                We can not used hooks in Class Component.
        Function Component


JSX stands for JavaScript XML.
        JSX allows us to write HTML in React(also in JS).
        
        JSX makes it easier to write and add HTML in React.
        
        JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the
        
        DOM without any createElement() and/or appendChild() methods.
        
        JSX converts HTML tags into react elements.
        
        Inserting a Large Block of HTML To write HTML on multiple lines, put the HTML inside parentheseslike
        this().
        
        JSX follows XML rules, and therefore HTML elements must be properly
        closed. 

        JSX will throw an error if the HTML is not properly closed.<br />
        Close empty elements with />
      
        The HTML code must be wrapped in ONE top level element. 
        So if you like to write two headers, you must put them inside a parent
        element, like a div element

        JSX will throw an error if the HTML is not correct, or if the HTML
        misses a parent element.

State is Public or private in react?

state can be used out side of component in react or not ?

How many methods or phases in react?
         There are 3 phases in React.
              Mounting
              Updating
              Unmounting

                There are 16 methods in React.
                        Constructor life cycle method
                        
                        Render life cycle method
                                We should never update setState in Render life cycle method

                        ComponentDidMount life cycle method
                                props and state are not effect on this life cycle method
                                Here we can call API mostlly

                        componentDidUpdate life cycle method
                                Here we can call API with conditionlly
                                If should component update is return true then Component Did
                                Update life cycle is called. Whenever return false then not
                                called.
                        
                        shouldComponentUpdate life cycle method

                        componentWillUnmount life cycle method

                                In Component Will Unmount life cycle child component must be
                                class Component and whatever parent Component does not
                                matter

                                component Will Unmount method is called just before of
                                component remove from dom.

                                Whenever Component hide then component will unmount method
                                called automatically.

On which time runs life cycle method in react?
         When components are loaded
          When component's props and state are updated
          When components are removed

What is Hooks?
         Hooks gives us to access to react features like state , pure
            component , life cycle method in functional component. which is
            inbuilted in class component.


            useEffect
                We can use useEffect more than one in one component.
                useEffect is called at page page loaded and also at updatation of
            state and props

 What is React fragments ?

        React fragments allow you to wrap multiple element without adding an
            extra node to the dom.

What is lifting state up ?

What is the pure component ?
        The components which do not re-render when the value of state and
            props has been updated with the same value.
            
            If the value of previous state or props and new state or props is
            the same ,then pure component did not re-rendered.        

        pure component uses only in class component.

        in props parent component must be pure component. {doubt}

What is useMemo ?
         useMemo uses at place of pure component in function component.
         useMemo uses for improve performance.

 What is Ref ?
         Refs provide a way to access DOM nodes or React elements created in
            the render method.

        it is used in class component.

        useRef is hook and it is used in function component as like Ref .

What is forwardRef ?
        React forwardRef is a method that allows parent components pass down
            refs to their children.

             Using forwardRef in React gives the child component a reference to a
            DOM element created by its parent component.
            .
What is controlled component ?
        When input fields are controlled through state in react is known as
            controlled component.

What is Uncontrolled component ?
         Whenever input fields are not controlled through state in react it
            is called uncontrolled component.

 What HOC (High order component) ?
         A higher-order component (HOC) is an advanced technique in React for
            reusing component logic again and again.

             A higher-order component is a function that takes a component and
            returns a new component.

  What is routing ?

        Routing is a process in which user is directed to different pages
            based on their reuest or action.

          React router is a collection of navigational components that compose
            declaratively with your application.

 What is API ?
         Api is a software intermediary that allows two application to talk
            to each other.

        API is worked as messanger that delivers your request to the
            provider that you're requesting it from and then delivers the
            response back to you.

             Methods of API
                 Get method uses for call API
              Post method uses for store data
              Put method uses for update API 
              Delet method uses for delet API

What is postman ?

 What is Context?
        In React, Context provides a way to pass data without passing props
            mannually at every level top to bottom.

What is redux ?
         A container where you can store your whole application data and it
            is works as a state management.


